Which of the following is not a PHP based CMS

Wix
CMSS are designed to be used by developers only.

False
Generally CMS's aren't customizable or extendable.

 False
Which command will allow you to quickly download a file from the internet through http?

Wget
Running Java or node.js servers to be directly externally available is considered good practise


False
CMS are used infrequently on the internet.

False
In order to setup wordpress you need to setup a configuration file with database information.

True
Which of the following is database management software for MySQL or MariaDB?

PHPMyAdmin
You can run BASH commands in the mysql shell.

False
MariaDB is a fork of MySQL

True
The MariaDB root password is the same as the system root password.

False
It is impossible to reset the MySQL root password.

False
What does SQL stand for?

Structured Query Language
Which SQL keyword starts the statement to add data to a table?

INSERT
The mysql user table contains information about the user accounts for MariaDB

True
To view a users permissions you would use which command?

SHOW GRANTS FOR user,
What command do you use to export a MySQL/MariaDB database?

Mysqldump
Which of the following will create a user named bob in MariaDB that can be accessed from any 10.0.0.0/8 address?

CREATE USER 'bob'@'10 % % % IDENTIFIED BY 'password,
What are MPM's not responible for?

Verifying configuration
The php configuration file is located in /etc and is /etc/php.ini

True
In the directive <VirtualHost *:80>, what does the represent?

The server IP address to bind to
If you run apachectl configtest it will find both logical and syntactical errors.

False
In order to open up TCP port 8080 on Linux what command can you run?

firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=tcp/8080
You can only host multiple sub domains using vhosts not domains.

False
The access_log log files will show you who accessed your server.

True
What is the default port for HTTPS?

443
What directive in the httpd.conf tells the server where the files are found to host as web pages?

DocumentRoot
Which of the following is not true regarding PHP?

PHP files must be compiled
What command do you run to change the password of franco while logged into franco?

Passwd
What is the equivalent to chmod 777?

chmod =rwx
What is roof's UID?

0
Who can execute a script if it has the permissions -rwxr-xr--?

User and Group members.
What command do you use to change owner of a file or directory?

Chown
What command would you use to create a group?

Groupadd
How do I create the user franco?

useradd franco
